Now that we've gathered our data let's talk about what we're actually going to do in the upcoming lessons.
Let's talk about the theory behind the machine learning model that we're gonna use the machine learning
model that I wanna introduce to you in this module is called the naive bayes classifier.
And the beauty of this model is its simplicity and its speed given that we're looking to classify spam
email speed is actually a really really nice attribute to have because nobody really wants to wait for
ages for some sort of complex neural network to run just to receive an email.
The speed of the need based model in fact made it one of the most popular machine learning models in
spam classification and is even heavily used today.
Spam classification along with weather forecasting is in fact one of the classic applications of the
naive bayes machine learning model.
Now as I said the models speed comes through its simplicity and the simplicity of this machine learning
model will also allow us to build this thing from the ground up in a relatively short amount of time.
There's going to be zero magic on how this thing works.
Instead of calling a built in function in psychic learn you're actually going to see all the nuts and
bolts that go into this machine learning model because you're gonna be coding it up in Python yourself.
But so much for the sales pitch on a youth base.
Let's talk a little bit about how the need base classifier actually works because this will help us
plan out our Python code that we're going to write and also put the upcoming coding lessons into context.
Now to make a decision if an email is spam or not spam with the Neve bays classified does is it will
compare to probabilities and by probability I just mean the chances of something the likelihood of an
event.
What our algorithm will do is it will calculate the probability of an email being spam and it will also
calculate the probability of an email not being spam of being legitimate.
Now if the probability of an email being spam is higher than the email will be classified as spam that's
all it is our algorithm will basically look at two numbers and then classify an email based on which
numbers higher.
This is what it boils down to behind the scenes.
Now one of the things that I find really helpful in thinking about this kind of stuff is to look at
these decisions that are algorithm is making visually.
So let me illustrate what this would look like in a picture.
Suppose we have a chart with an X and a Y axis on the horizontal.
We've got the probability of an email not being spam.
And on the vertical we have the probability of an email being spam in the middle of this chart.
We can draw a line this line is where the X equals the Y.
This is where the two probabilities are equal.
Now in our naive bayes model this line in fact has a very special name.
This line is called the decision boundary the model will decide if an email is spam or not spam based
on which side of this line an email falls on suppose an e-mail comes in the probability of this e-mail
being spam is calculated to be 70 percent.
Where would it go on the chance right here.
It would go far above this dividing line.
And guess what.
Because the email is above the decision boundary.
The algorithm will classify this email as spam.
Makes sense right now.
What if the e-mail comes in and it's only got a 40 percent chance of being spam.
It would go somewhere around here.
Since this email is below the decision boundary it would be classified as legitimate not spam and we
can plot every single email on this chart so this classification step is actually the final step that
the algorithm takes.
It applies a decision rule based on the probabilities of the email being spam or not being spam.
But what we haven't really talked about so far is where these probabilities actually come from.
And this is what we're going to cover in the next lesson.
I'll see you there.